I just wrapped the first video talking
in broad brushstrokes about what's wrong
with Ike enough's language learning
program for how you can supposedly learn
any language in six months including
Chinese and I thought it'd get right
back on the microphone now and record a
second video challenging myself to move
into more specific details I have indeed
change clothes I got into my gym where
after this I'm going straight to the gym
to lift weights do push-ups so on and so
forth however I'm neither studying
Chinese as intensively as I did back
when I was living in that school and
could make nor and my lifting weights at
the gym as intensively so yeah my life
has gotten worse in many ways these are
just two examples all right so I can as
advice more precisely what's wrong with
it
I think what's interesting is that the
same broad thematic concerns in the
first video are here going to be
repeated and one of those is questioning
what we really mean by encouragement or
motivation it's very easy to treat
sophisticated meanings in a simplistic
way when the terms we use are so
familiar encouragement motivation some
of the best results of any language
teaching methods in the world show up
from the United States diplomatic corps
you can buy the materials you can see
the methods you can see the textbooks
they use you can find out what they do
in the classroom I just ended the last
video by saying everyone wants to sell
you a bottle telling you this contains
the secret but the truth is there is no
secret if you look into what the United
States diplomatic corps is doing right
in teaching languages guess what there
is no secret the type of person who
signs up for that course the type of
person who has been offered a job paying
more than $100,000 a year in the
diplomatic corps that kind of person
comes to class
unbelievably motivated unbelievably
disciplined focused on learning that
language you could use the worst
language teaching methods in the world
and still get great results
with the United States diplomatic corps
because of the type of people who are
there to learn language their motivation
coming into the classroom and what
they've been promised as the product at
the end of that class right so who gets
recruited into diplomatic corps middle
aged people they often have a career in
law already there's something like a
trained lawyer something unrelated to
language you know they have some kind of
background in government bureaucracy and
they even offered the opportunity of a
lifetime hey if you come to class if you
buckle down and hit the books you work
really hard to learn Chinese we're going
to give you this incredibly high-paying
prestigious job in China and then this
is what you're gonna do probably with
the next ten years of your life probably
you're set for life probably this is
going to pay for your retirement this is
the financial incentive alone is
tremendous but there are also elements
of personal prestige ego so on and so
forth so those students are showing up
with a level of focus dedication
motivation encouragement that cannot be
compared to a normal University student
who signs up for an intro to Chinese
language class not really knowing what
they're signing up for probably not
really knowing what they wanted a life
and you definitely not bringing that
kind of background in terms of really
focused hard work sitting down with with
pen and paper right so this is one thing
when you really get into what we mean by
motivation and encouragement you're
looking at something that can't be
reproduced it's something I can't sell
you right it's something I can't give
you on YouTube it's something I can't
sell you in an e-book it's not a
commodity right but on the other hand it
completely Trump's sorry to use that
verb in the year 2020 it Trump's it
outshines the significance of the
language learning methods you're using
now the other problem is when you use
bad methods
it will then erode the motivation that
people have it will be discouraging for
them so I kena specifically encourages
you to start with the Pimsleur course
that's really the main piece of advice
he has is
for you to work alone self study in
isolation using the Pimsleur method
alright and then we're not tracking the
number of successes we're not tracking
the number of failures he's just gonna
present you with emails he's received
from people who are happy with the
course emails people said hey this
worked great element language in six
months right
this is inherently misleading we are
left to imagine what percentage of
people buy the book watch the YouTube
video follow this advice they get
discouraged and stopped or they fail or
they work really hard for the six months
they still have no listening
comprehension of Chinese they can't
understand what someone says when they
speak to them in Chinese which is very
common right the Pimsleur method for
chinese specifically is absolutely
terrible and will go further the
Pimsleur method for Chinese is
especially terrible if you're at level
one or level zero if you're already like
an intermediate student and you want to
review you want to refresh your memory
by going back and listening for those
simpler dialogues and Pimsleur that's
okay but in terms of learning alright
with Chinese you can't tell from the
word form whether the word is a noun or
a verb or a subject or an object right
you just get one syllable to work with
most of the time sometimes sometimes you
get two syllables okay you can't pick up
intuitively as an English speaker the
parts of the sentence the correct word
order or the syntax in the implicit
relationship between the words by
listening through repetition to a
Pimsleur tape now how useful is Pimsleur
for learning German or French or Italian
I've got to tell you I'm also very
skeptical with that but with Chinese
from day one you must have the accurate
spelling in pinyin
you must know how to spell the word
phonetically in the artificial system of
phonetics the Chinese has and you must
get familiar with the non phonetic
Geographic written from from day one
otherwise they're going to be
two different words that sound like Dai
Dai and you won't know which is which
they're gonna be two different words
that sound like Dao and you don't
realize they're two different words for
you just listen to the Pimsleur you
think the same word and you're gonna
hear words in different parts of the
sentence and you're not gonna know the
role that word is playing so the main
piece of advice he offers you for
learning a language in six months is
absolutely terrible for Chinese I would
also say it's terrible for any really
difficult language like Cree a jib whale
ocean Cambodian Japanese say it's
terrible advice for and if it is okay
advice if it's just not terrible if it's
mediocre advice for a language like
Italian or German I would say even so
that's only because your own motivation
is so great that it is outshining that
it is trumping what's basically a bad
method for language of language
acquisition for language learning
encouragement and discouragement what
we're talking about here and implicitly
what all of the YouTube gurus are
profiting from is just how discouraging
it is to study a language alone all
right you can be wrong about something
and make the same error again and again
and there's nobody there to encourage
you you can try your hardest to write
something on internet and Chinese and
people ridicule you and people are cruel
to you and people are discouraging you
can be an University program I told
anthro about that already and you go to
class and the teacher treats you like
crap
who has the motivation who has the
encouragement to sit at a desk alone to
really study a language in isolation
when language itself by its very nature
is social and when the refinement and
correction of language requires these
sorts of social relationships so he
mentions he makes a big deal out of this
I cannot claims that the fundamental
method of language learning as a child
is just to talk and then have a parent
lovingly correct you right parents say
oh no you say it this way up towards the
wrong way you know know it you were in
your or two different words this kind of
thing okay do you have a relationship
with somebody like that in your life to
teach you Chinese if you're learning
Chinese do you have someone who will act
like a grandparent to you correcting you
encouraging you helping you in this way
and if so for how many hours a day okay
so it's fine to offer this observation
in theory right like oh well this is the
natural way to learn a language is to do
this like a child with a parent okay
can you employ someone to move into your
apartment and practice Chinese with you
and to do it in this you know a sinuous
way noticing the errors you're making
maybe they're taking notes and saying
okay there are two different words that
sound like Dao and I can tell you you
don't know the difference between them
okay there are two different words that
sound like diono in that sentence it's
not this diet the other die and then go
through it with you this way can you
employ someone to live with you and act
this way and even if you could we were
talking about six months here after five
years of this kind of passive parental
loving language learning you would be
lucky if you could speak that language
at the same level as a five year old
okay it takes five year old children
five years to get to that level and be a
lisping incoherent and that's not what
you want okay after six months studying
Chinese I was able to write articles
that got published in newspapers in
Chinese my ability language is really
limited my vocabulary is really limited
really really limited but within those
limits I could write an article that was
good enough to be published by
newspapers without any Corrections they
didn't change it they didn't even change
the title they didn't fix there was not
a single error in it they got correct
and I still do that now once in a while
I've read an article a couple weeks ago
in Chinese that got published in a
newspaper pretty pretty silly article
and you know obviously I use a
dictionary to look up the words I don't
know not saying it's easy for me but
it's a language exercise if I can do
that at that level there is no
five-year-old child who can do that so
if you're being honest with yourself
but the outcomes you want and then the
methods and the sacrifices you're gonna
have to make to get there probably
you're now looking over at the United
States diplomatic corps you're probably
looking at the methods they're using
you're probably looking at the CIA
Central Intelligence Agency or US
military you're probably looking at some
of these super intensive super
exhausting methods of language learning
saying okay could I do this for six
months I mean the method I used I
described as being in some ways like the
military and in some ways like living in
a Buddhist monastery it is what it is
and then again implicitly and tacitly
it's going to come down to a question of
motivation and encouragement are you
just going to experience this process of
language learning as denigrating the
discouraging and disheartening or you
can have a positive attitude through it
now some people might have this kind of
optimistic sunny attitude where they can
listen to the Pimsleur tapes memorize a
bunch of stuff completely wrong like
that with very low levels of accuracy
just oh yeah yeah this is fun I'm
learning these phrases like and there
were all these little traps in Chinese
what it's like oh no you can use that
verb positively but you can't use it
negatively
oh yeah that verb in order to make it
transitive you have to add this word to
the sentence but then if use a different
verb than it doesn't work like that at
all the idiom the syntax the grammar
isn't like that okay I give you an
example wool cow suni I told you we'll
do a nice warming I explained it to you
okay yet add way and one but not the
other okay this is easy all right there
were just these patterns and rules and
exceptions to the rules it's all ATM all
the time there's absolutely no way
you're even going to notice those
problems working from Pimsleur so if you
just start like a sunny optimistic happy
person so this is great I'm just gonna
memorize this stuff from this language
tape without even having accuracy about
the difference between like tan and con
right that's hard to get from audio-only
right there are going to be things you
get
long phonetically probably Shou and sau
and you know this kind of thing the
different s sounds and what-have-you
maybe a lot you get wrong even
phonetically because you're not learning
the opinion you're gonna have no idea
what the written characters are they're
gonna be I guess I can say homonyms
they're words that sound similar or
sound the same where you think they're
the same word and they're not there are
two or three different words crit
examples duh sort of just de how many
words of it sound like duh and you
really need to memorize which one is
which and you need to know what
orthographically not just phonetically
okay but there are some people who are
so optimistic and so positive motivated
that they could just memorize this crap
with zero accuracy and then speak
Chinese completely incomprehensible it
would come with zero comprehensibility
to native Chinese people they would come
out of that talking Chinese in a manner
where native Chinese speakers have no
clue what you're saying they just said
oh what and then flip it around and vice
versa when they listen to a native
speaker talking she it turns out in real
life Chinese people don't talk the way
people do in the Pimsleur tapes at all
and again in terms of idiom where you're
only able to understand exactly the verb
you learn before and only learn only
understand it when it's used with the
idiom or the sentence pattern that
you're familiar with like oh they took
that verb but now they're using it with
a passive voice construction in Chinese
and now it's incomprehensible to you or
now when you hear the sentence you don't
even know which word is the verb and
which word is the noun because in
Chinese they all sound the same and you
can't guess from the position in the
sentence because of these myriad idioms
or sentence patterns okay
uh yeah I'm getting the point across
here the choice is really really hard
with or without it can as a Miracle
Method without his advice but if you are
so optimistic and sunny and positive a
character if you have that motivation
right then my point is here the outcomes
will be even worse for you right cuz
you'll be miss learning the language
okay
the actually the people who get pissed
off and frustrated and discouraged in a
sense they're the lucky ones right
they're the ones who say hey this is a
broken tool this is
bad method this is a waste of my time
I'm not learning the language accurately
I'm putting myself back instead of
forwards so forget it I quit if you
measure them a very very large
percentage of people using this kind of
method they're gonna fail but what theme
do not realize is they're better off
than the people who are so optimistic
and so diluted that they think they're
succeeding when in fact they're setting
themselves back by years because they're
inculcating bad language habits just
artificial textbook broken use of the
language that they're gonna have to undo
and relearn they're going to go back to
scratch they're gonna have to throw that
all away which is very very hard to do I
mentioned this in my channel once before
I knew an old man I think he was more
than 60 he was a white man who had lived
in Thailand for many years let's say he
had lived in Thailand for 30 years and
he had language errors he never learned
the written script so this is very
similar to doing Pimsleur method he only
learned through speech he only learned
in this so-called organic method from
talking to people he didn't know when a
word had a TT like a double consonant
sound or just one consonant right
because you can't hear that in the Thai
language
you also can't hear it in in English
most of time the word batter in English
are there two T's is the one T well if
English isn't your first language it's
hard to guess just from hearing you know
so these kinds of distinctions he
completely lacked he had no idea about
elements of meaning that were written
into the words he didn't know word
boundaries so there could be a phonetic
component which is actually ending of
one word that he thinks it's the
beginning of the next word I saw this
guy speaking the language fluently but
with zero accuracy I saw him standing
around with a bunch of construction
workers and one of the construction
workers came up to him as a female
construction worker around the
construction site and this female
construction worker says to him in Thai
she says hey you know my husband dumped
me so you and I we can get together we
can be a couple now and he replied in
Thai
and all the construction workers broke
out laughing he were applied in Thai Oh
service no good that was what he sent I
like that your husband leave you because
let's you know good at cleaning up the
apartment of something because he said
it in three two words and they're all
these construction workers they're her
colleagues and they're all falling over
laughing they thought this was so funny
right so I mean the guy could
communicate in the language but and one
of the most astounding language errors
he made there was you know to me I kept
saying to know you're this isn't this
isn't correct
don't keep there were basic nouns that
he had misapprehended and memorized with
the wrong meaning the name of a city
versus a word meaning the mayor's office
like you know he thought the mayor's
office was the name of the city and vice
versa I guess and we'll get into more
detail so it's very misleading to think
the only problem is learning a language
or not learning language like fluency or
lack of fluency what's more dangerous is
false fluency what's more dangerous is
the illusion of having confidence and
ability and understanding in a language
when you don't learning a language in an
inaccurate and sloppy way it's like if
you're a tailor you do a bad job
stitching something up and then you've
got to go back and tear it apart and put
all the pieces back together again okay
I Can Has advice in short I think it's
terrible the only thing I can say about
the guy positively is obviously there
are people who watch these videos and
think wow if he can do it I can do it
they feel some kind of positive
encouragement and maybe in a sense
that's a beautiful thing